![](media/40a47799f4684d6ad528d753336448a2.png)

Liberator Operating System

**The Windows Shell**
=====================

This document explains the need for and solutions provided by the Liberator
Operating System (LOS), specifically concerning the LOS Shell (LOSS). Which is
an alternative shell for Windows based computers that can be used whilst LOS is
being finalised for production release.

Introduction
============

LOS is the only operating system that has been written from the first key press
to the last with one overarching principal; to keep the user safe. Security,
Privacy, Anonymity, and Resilience are not after-thoughts for us, they are the
first thoughts we have and everything we do is tested against those criteria.

It is a fallacy that an Operating System cannot be 100% safe, it can. What is
true, however, is none of the current Operating Systems will ever be 100% safe
because they are not designed from the beginning to be so. It is also true that
our Operating System cannot *make* you 100% safe; you are still able to reveal
your identity if you so wish and thus lose some of your safety, but not all.

Whilst the Liberator Operating System is being worked on, we can provide a great
alternative to the Windows Operating System provided by Microsoft in the form of
a new Shell (Your Windows Desktop) â€“ which encompasses our principals as far as
possible in keeping you safe; and we call LOSS.

We do this by security hardening your Windows Installation, which kills all
unnecessary Windows Services, Processes, Logs and reporting home actions. We
provide a new Logon experience which ensures that no one but you know if you
have ever used LOSS before or not, and where without revealing yourself a
*panic* memorable word can be used to kill all data instantly. A new Distributed
Encrypted File System preventing your data being decrypted, the system will
prevent anyone even finding the data. All Network connections including those to
the Internet are forced through encrypted Virtual Private Networks which
prevents your IP address and therefore your location ever being discovered and
prevents your Internet Service Provider from ever knowing what information you
are sending and receiving and to whom you are connected. No hardware can be
added to your computer without your knowledge and permission and no software can
run on your computer without your knowledge and our permission. Yes, we prevent
you running software that will reveal who you are.
